{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fmodern\fcharset77 Courier;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10720\viewh11780\viewkind0
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs20 \cf0 For more information about DoubleCommand please visit http://doublecommand.sourceforge.net/
\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs40 \cf0 Welcome to DoubleCommand!\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 By Michael Baltaks <mbaltaks@mac.com>\
DoubleCommand 1.4.1\
\
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 About DoubleCommand\

\f0\b0\fs8 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 DoubleCommand is a Mac OS X kernel extension that lets you remap certain keys to certain other keys. It started out as a quick way to turn the Enter key into a Command key, but is now far more powerful than every before.\
\
DoubleCommand started out as a hack of iJect, which was generously GPL'd by Christian Starkjohann. So go check out the great software he makes over at Objective Development <http://www.obdev.at/>\
\
As a result, DoubleCommand is released under v2 of the GPL. Please read the file Licence.txt for more information.\
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 \
Installing DoubleCommand on Mac OS X 10.2
\f0\b0\fs24 \

\fs8 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 To install DoubleCommand, please perform the following steps:\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs8 \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 1.	Remove any older versions of DoubleCommand, iJect, uControl or PowerDelete (see below for how to do that). These are conflicting software.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs8 \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 2.	Open a Finder window and go to the "Library" folder directly on your Mac OS X startup volume. (There are several folders named "Library". We mean the one in the root of the startup volume, 
\f1\b NOT
\f0\b0  in the System folder!)\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs8 \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 3a. If there is a folder named "StartupItems", drop the "DoubleCommand" folder into it. The DoubleCommand folder is in the "StartupItems" folder in the distributed disk image.\
3b. If there is no such folder, drop the whole folder "StartupItems" from the distributed disk image directly into the "Library" folder.\
	You should have created a directory hierarchy like this in any case:\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs8 \cf0 \
\pard\tx1140\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 	/Library/StartupItems/DoubleCommand\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs8 \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 4.	Restart the computer\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
After rebooting, DoubleCommand will be active, however on Mac OS X 10.2 currently the settings will not stick and you will need to run the sysctl line from Terminal after restarting. You will also need to click "Fix and Use" when the computer starts warning about a security issue.\
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b \cf0 Note:
\f0\b0  You need Administrator rights to install startup items, but you do not need to be the Unix super user "root". The user account which is created during installation of the operating system has administrator rights.\
\
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 Configuring DoubleCommand
\f0\b0\fs24 \

\fs8 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 To configure DoubleCommand requires some basic maths ability and a text editor (like this one). You only need to edit the file /Library/StartupItems/DoubleCommand/DoubleCommand, changing the number at the end of the line:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2 \cf0 /usr/sbin/sysctl -w dc.config=1\

\f0 to a number calculated below and save the file. Then either copy that line into a Terminal and press return, or just restart your computer. Unfortunately this version and Mac OS X 10.2 do not play well together and you will need to run this command in the Terminal after every restart.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
The table below shows a list of numbers and what functionality they activate. To activate more than one at a time, simply add the numbers together. For example, I like enter -> command and shift+delete -> forward delete, so I use 1 + 16384 = 16385. So my file has a line that looks like:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2 \cf0 /usr/sbin/sysctl -w dc.config=16385\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
Where command, option, etc are used it means any command, option, etc keys on your keyboard. It is not possible at this stage to only change for example the right option key to something else, you must change both option keys. This issue is under investigation.\
\
0 - do nothing\
1 - enter -> command\
2 - enter -> control\
4 - enter -> option\
8 - enter -> fn (partial support, cursor keys only)\
16 - command -> option\
32 - command -> control\
64 - option -> command\
128 - option -> fn (not yet available)\
256 - control -> command\
512 - control <-> option (swap)\
1024 - control -> fn (not yet available)\
2048 - caps lock -> control (partial, sticky)\
4096 - fn -> control\
8192 - numpad . switch\
16384 - shift delete -> forward delete\
32768 - disable option and command\
65536 - PC style Home and End keys\
\
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 Removing DoubleCommand
\f0\b0\fs24 \

\fs8 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 To remove DoubleCommand from your machine:\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs8 \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 1.	Delete the DoubleCommand folder in /Library/StartupItems on your Mac OS X  startup volume.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs8 \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 2.	Restart your computer.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 Removing conflicting software
\f0\b0\fs24 \

\fs8 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 To remove conflicting software from your machine:\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs8 \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 1.	Delete the iJect, uControl or PowerDelete folder in /Library/StartupItems on your Mac OS X  startup volume.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs8 \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 2.	Restart your computer.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 Troubleshooting
\f0\b0\fs24 \

\fs8 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 DoubleCommand has been developed for Mac OS X 10.1 and above. It is known to run on Mac OS X 10.1.0 through to 10.2.3 and probably runs on later versions, too. However, since it links to internal kernel structures, newer versions of the kernel may break DoubleCommand. In particular, there are separate binaries for 10.1.0 - 10.1.4, 10.1.5 and 10.2. Versions since 1.4 only support Mac OS X 10.2.\
\
If your machine does not boot after installing DoubleCommand, hold the option (alt) key during booting and boot to Mac OS 9. You can remove DoubleCommand from Mac OS 9.\
\
\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 Version History
\f0\b0\fs24 \

\fs8 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f3\i\fs24 \cf0 1.4.1 - 2003-02-07: 
\f0\i0 Compiled with new compiler for smaller binary, also PC home and end keys.
\f3\i \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 1.4 - 2002-08-30: 
\f0\i0 Quick recompile to support Mac OS X 10.2.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f3\i\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 1.3 - 2002-07-19: 
\f0\i0 Code tidy and added capslock -> control and other features.
\f3\i \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 1.3b2 - 2002-06-06: 
\f0\i0 Fixed a kernel panic with Mac OS X 10.1.5.
\f3\i \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 1.3b1 - 2002-05-01: 
\f0\i0 All versions joined into one, now configurable at any time!
\f3\i \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 1.2.2 - 2001-12-15:
\f0\i0  Removed Shift-F12 option since it interferes with the Shift+Delete feature.\
\

\f3\i 1.2.1 - 2001-10-23:
\f0\i0  Fixed problem with Deluxe that blocked the Command+Shift+Delete empty trash key shortcut.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f3\i \cf0 \
1.2 - 2001-10-22: 
\f0\i0 Added Shift-Delete feature, split into standard and deluxe versions.
\f3\i \
\
1.1 - 2001-10-21: 
\f0\i0 Fixed keyboard bell and enter key event problem. Fixed Command-Tab problem. Fixed page jump problem in BBEdit.\

\f3\i \
1.0 - 2001-10-16:
\f0\i0  Initial release.\
_________________________________________\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs18 \cf0 Copyright \'a9 2001-2003, Michael Baltaks.}